DOCS-9458-email-studio-editorial-kt (#1141)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: email/1.3/modules/ROOT/edits/email-studio-configuration.adoc

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Email Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `email` in the search field.
. Click *Email Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these input sources to use with Email Connector:

> 

Reviewer: I have added the tagging to the style ref. entry for "bullet lists":

* List item
"+"
* Description of list item

Each item below should have a + to create a blank line between the list item and its description.

> * *On New Email - IMAP* +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *On New Email - IMAP* +
+

```

Reviewer: Please repeat insertion in remainder of list items.

> Initiates a flow by retrieving all the emails from an IMAP mailbox folder, watermark can be enabled for polled items

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initiates a flow by retrieving all the emails from an IMAP mailbox folder. You can enable a watermark for polled items.
```

* *On New Email - POP3* +

> Initiates a flow by retrieving all the emails from an POP3 mailbox folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initiates a flow by retrieving all the emails from a POP3 mailbox folder.
```

* *HTTP > Listener* +

> Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port

Reviewer: We have to add periods because of the one description that includes a complete sentence, per style ref.
```suggestion
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port.
```

* *Scheduler* +

> Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met.
```

> For example, to configure the *On New Email - IMAP* source , follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to configure the *On New Email - IMAP* source, follow these steps:
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Email > On New Email - IMAP*.
. Drag *On New Email - IMAP* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *On New Email - IMAP* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the source in the app.

> . On the *Email IMAP* window, for *Connection* select any of the connection types to provide to this configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Email IMAP* window, for *Connection* select either of the following connection types:
```

* *IMAP Connection*
* *IMAPS Connection*

[start=6]

> . On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as *Host*, *Port* and *TLS configuration*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as *Host*, *Port* and *TLS configuration*.
```

> . On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify timeout configuration and reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify timeout configuration and reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
```

. Click *OK*.

> . On the *On New Email - IMAP* configuration screen, in the *General* section, select a *Scheduling Strategy* to configure the scheduler that triggers the polling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *On New Email - IMAP* configuration screen, in the *General* section, select a *Scheduling Strategy* to configure the scheduler that triggers the polling.
```

Reviewer: Does the template use "on a window," "on a tab," and "on a screen"?
Seeing it here sounds wrong. To me, "on" = on top of, and "in" = inside (an area).
Is this something the team should discuss? Have I just let this go in the past?

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for Email Connector, follow these steps:

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Email* and then select the desired operation.

Reviewer: Note "in a view".

> . Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the input source.

Reviewer: In this case, "onto" is used correctly to imply "on top of."

> The following screenshot shows the Email Connector operations in the Mule Palette of Anypoint Studio:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following screenshot shows the Email Connector operations in the *Mule Palette* view of Anypoint Studio:
```

.Email Connector Operations
image::email-connector-operations.png[Email Connector Operations]

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element for Email Connector requires you to set a configuration based on the supported protocols for the connector operations:

[%header,cols="20s,80a"]
|===

> | Global Element Configuration | Connector Operation/Sources

Reviewer: GLOBALLY avoid using the / symbol. Choose the better of "and" or "or" instead.

| IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) a| * *Delete*
* *Expunge Folder*
* *List - IMAP*
* *Mark As Deleted*
* *Mark As Read*
* *On New Email - IMAP*
| POP3 (Post Office Protocol 3) a| * *List POP3*
* *On New Email - POP3*
| SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) a| * *Send*
|===

For example, to configure a POP3 global element for the *List POP3* operation, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. Select the *List POP3* operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the *List POP3* configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.

> On the *Email POP3* window, for *Connection* select any of the connection types to provide to this configuration:

Reviewer: In

* *POP3 Connection*
* *POP3S Connection*

[start=6]

> . On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as *Host*, *Port* and *TLS configuration*.

Reviewer: In

GLOBAL; I'll stop marking each.

```suggestion
. In the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as *Host*, *Port*, and *TLS configuration*.
```

. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify timeout configuration and reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *OK*.

> The following screenshot shows the Email Connector Global Element Configuration window in Anypoint Studio:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following screenshot shows the Email Connector *Global Element Configuration* window in Anypoint Studio:
```

.Email Connector Global Element Configuration
image::email-global-configuration.png[Email Connector Global Element Configuration]

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure Additional Connector Fields

> For IMAPS, POP3S, and SMPTPs protocol connections, you can use Transport Layer Security (TLS) and configure email by providing a key store with your certificate. Additionally, you can also enable two-way authentication by providing a trust store. For details, see xref:email-documentation.adoc#Tls[Email Connector Reference] and xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores].

Reviewer: "Additionally, you can also enable..." is redundant. Omit one or the other of "additionally" or "also."
If this is in the template, please fix the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For IMAPS, POP3S, and SMPTPs protocol connections, you can use Transport Layer Security (TLS) and configure email by providing a keystore with your certificate. Additionally, you can enable two-way authentication by providing a truststore. For details, see xref:email-documentation.adoc#Tls[Email Connector Reference] and xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores].
```

Reviewer: Ditto re. template; note that the text was out of sync with the presentations of keystore and truststore in the xref.

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

> To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check for problems, you can view the app log:
```
If in the template, please fix.
